# print signal number

- Parent forks a child and waits for it.  Child sleeps for ever.
  - Kill the child from the shell.  Parent will print the signal number.

Example:
```
$ ./a.out &
[1] 34926
CHILD: my pid is 34927.
$ kill -9 34927
PARENT: child killed by signal 9.
```

# process pool

  - usage: `./a.out <N>`
  - fork N processes, if one of them dies, fork a new one so that
    there is always approx. N processes around.
    - each child process will loop + random sleep + print to stderr
    - the parent will print its pid to a named pipe
      - create the named pipe beforehand with mkfifo(1)
  - verify with pstree(1)/ptree(1) run on parent's pid one it starts running
    - this is automatic thanks to the pipe semantics: reader and writer randezvous
```
    read pid </tmp/pool_fifo && while [ 1 ]; do pstree -p $pid; sleep 1; done
```

# exec trough pipe

- fork a process, exec the first argument (e.g. date(1)),
  read the child's output through a pipe (but use stdin to do that)
  - print the output to stdout
  - add sleep() to both parent and child and observe fd table with lsof(1) or /proc

## more args

  - variant: construct arguments of the executed program from command line
	     arguments
    - verify with running e.g. `cat /etc/passwd /etc/group` and verify
      (including stderr !) that the result is correct

```
    ./a.out cmd arg1 arg2 ...
```

## fork both

  - variant: fork both the reader and the writer. wait for the reader.

# pipeline

## recursive

implement pipeline recursively
  - i.e. main `./a.out` forks just once
  - usage: `./a.out cmd1 cmd2 cmd3 .. cmdn`
    - e.g. `./a.out date tee tee tee tee` or `./a.out date cat cat cat cat`
  - last command is forked first since it is usually the one that finishes last
    (in this kind of producer-consumer pipeline)

## horizontal

main process forks all children

## circle

pipeline starts and ends in the main process

# daemon

- reimplement daemon(3)
  - basic idea: fork a new child, exit the parent
  - make it robust w.r.t. setsid(2) failure
  - make sure to behave correctly w.r.t. file descriptors (verify with lsof(1))
  - write tests

